I also was invested in the utopianism of,
like, a free, erotic space for women and
gender-non-conforming people. I suppose I hoped
that the bathhouse would be a place where, for
want of a less tritely academic phrase, a certain
essentialism of identity as the limit on what was
conceivable or desirable within lesbian or queer
women’s space would be loosened if not completely
untethered. Many trans women are heterosexual or
bisexual. Many trans women work in sex work and
date in the context of their work. So, one of the
limits of the bathhouse — which as a queer woman I
was very comfortable with in some ways — was not
having men included, unless they were trans men,
which produced a certain kind of contradiction
at the level of whether trans men’s manhood was
granted or not. Trans women who want to get
some action, who are into cis men, have no
reason to go to the women’s bathhouse and thus
are not included. So, having an expansive idea
of it being a space for queer women’s sexuality
and that including transsexual women would’ve
involved including heterosexual transsexual women
and transsexual women who might be working. So,
in some level, there’s a contradiction there
between the idea of a women-only space or a
women-and-trans-only space and making room for
the desires of queer women who are marginalized
on the basis of their queerness, which is to say
heterosexual trans women. I did often experience
the bathhouse as an antagonistic place, but it was
heterogeneous. I had good and loving and friendly
relations with many people who were involved in
organizing it and who attended it. So, I don’t
want that to disappear within a depiction of the
kind of alienation I sometimes felt there, or the
critique I have of some of the overarching ethos
of how trans women’s inclusion was conceptualized.